# The Project
For this project, Kunal and I went on a deep dive through this dataset that we found on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/gbolduc/fantasy-football-data-2017-2023)


The dataset we are exploring contains football statistics on quarterbacks, wide receivers, running backs and tight ends from the 2017-2022 seasons. This contains 3389 rows and 27 columns of data, with important statistics such as interceptions, touchdowns, fumbles, passing yards and receiving yards. We wanted to look into the correlation between a receiving or throwing yard statistic and the total fantasy football points at the end of the season. The statistics that we will examine are rushing yards per attempt, completion percentage, rushing yards per touchdown, receiving yards per touchdown and receiving yards per catch. With this information, we then plotted our statistical metrics of choice against total fantasy points for a visualization, in addition to calculating the correlation between the two metrics. If the correlation between one of the specific metrics above and total fantasy points is high, we would use the correlation data to predict good players for the following 2022 season, and check accuracy with the actual 2022 data.
To prepare the data for our analysis, we used pandas to create new columns of  ‘CompPct’, ‘RushYds/TD’ and ‘RecYds/TD’. Then we sorted the data by positions to create filtered datasets that only contained Quarterbacks, Wide Receivers or Running Backs. In fantasy, there are hundreds of players that you can draft, but not all of them will be starters or even play at all. To address this, we used a histogram to visualize the distribution of total yards by player in each sub data set, finding that the most counted data entries were close to 0.  To tackle the problem of these 0 or close to 0 yard data entries we decided to use only the top 50% of the players in each category for our analysis. The distributions of rushing, receiving and passing yards are displayed below.
